README.md, before:

# wpdAuth
The authenticator for the Waterproofing Data (WPD) Work Packages

## How this project was created

This project was initially created using the [spring initializr](https://start.spring.io/), together with the following dependencies:

- [Lombok](https://projectlombok.org/). Java annotation library which helps to reduce boilerplate code.
- [Spring Web](https://spring.io/guides/gs/serving-web-content/). Build web, including RESTful, applications using Spring MVC. Uses Apache Tomcat as the default embedded container.
- [Spring Data JPA](https://spring.io/projects/spring-data-jpa). Persist data in SQL stores with Java Persistence API using Spring Data and Hibernate.
- [PostgreSQL Driver](https://jdbc.postgresql.org/). A JDBC and R2DBC driver that allows Java programs to connect to a PostgreSQL database using standard, database independent Java code.
- [Spring Security](https://spring.io/projects/spring-security). Highly customizable authentication and access-control framework for Spring applications.

# Dependencies

- [Maven Project](https://maven.apache.org/)
- [Java 16](http://openjdk.java.net/projects/jdk/16/)
- [Spring Boot 2.5.3](https://spring.io/projects/spring-boot/)
- [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) via [Homebrew preferably](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/postgresql)

# How to setup this project

Once the dependencies are properly installed, follow the steps below:

- Clone the project locally

```console
    $ git clone https://github.com/IGSD-UoW/wpdAuth.git
    $ cd wpdAuth
```

- Start the PostgreSQL and run the scripts to create the database and get the load data.

```console
  $ brew services start postgresql
  $ psql postgres
  postgres=# \conninfo
  postgres=# CREATE DATABASE wpdauth;
  postgres=# \c wpdauth
  wpdauth=# CREATE EXTENSION "uuid-ossp";
  wpdauth=# \i db/ddl.sql
  wpdauth=# \i db/sys_config.sql
  wpdauth=# \q
```

- Install dependencies

```console
  $ mvn install
```

- Run the project

```console
  $ mvn spring-boot:run
```


# How to run this project

Navigate to `http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html` in your browser to check everything is working correctly. You can change the default port in the `application.properties` file.

- Make a GET request to `/users/me` to check you're not authenticated. You should receive a response with a `403` with an `Access Denied` message since you haven't set your valid JWT token yet.

```
$ curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/users/me
```

- Make a POST request to `/users/signin` with the default admin user we programatically created to get a valid JWT token

```
$ curl -X POST 'http://localhost:8080/users/signin?username=admin&password=admin'
```

- Add the JWT token as a Header parameter and make the initial GET request to `/users/me` again

```
$ curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/users/me -H 'Authorization: Bearer <JWT_TOKEN>'
```

- You should get a similar response to this one, meaning that you're now authenticated

```javascript
{
  "id": 1,
  "username": "admin",
  "email": "admin@email.com",
  "roles": [
    "ROLE_ADMIN"
  ]
}
```

Commit message:

Adding Swagger doc in README

README.md, after:

# wpdAuth
The authenticator for the Waterproofing Data (WPD) Work Packages. The complete Swagger documentation is available [here](https://igsd-uow.github.io/wpdAuth/).

## How this project was created

This project was initially created using the [spring initializr](https://start.spring.io/), together with the following dependencies:

- [Lombok](https://projectlombok.org/). Java annotation library which helps to reduce boilerplate code.
- [Spring Web](https://spring.io/guides/gs/serving-web-content/). Build web, including RESTful, applications using Spring MVC. Uses Apache Tomcat as the default embedded container.
- [Spring Data JPA](https://spring.io/projects/spring-data-jpa). Persist data in SQL stores with Java Persistence API using Spring Data and Hibernate.
- [PostgreSQL Driver](https://jdbc.postgresql.org/). A JDBC and R2DBC driver that allows Java programs to connect to a PostgreSQL database using standard, database independent Java code.
- [Spring Security](https://spring.io/projects/spring-security). Highly customizable authentication and access-control framework for Spring applications.

# Dependencies

- [Maven Project](https://maven.apache.org/)
- [Java 16](http://openjdk.java.net/projects/jdk/16/)
- [Spring Boot 2.5.3](https://spring.io/projects/spring-boot/)
- [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) via [Homebrew preferably](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/postgresql)

# How to setup this project

Once the dependencies are properly installed, follow the steps below:

- Clone the project locally

```console
    $ git clone https://github.com/IGSD-UoW/wpdAuth.git
    $ cd wpdAuth
```

- Start the PostgreSQL and run the scripts to create the database and get the load data.

```console
  $ brew services start postgresql
  $ psql postgres
  postgres=# \conninfo
  postgres=# CREATE DATABASE wpdauth;
  postgres=# \c wpdauth
  wpdauth=# CREATE EXTENSION "uuid-ossp";
  wpdauth=# \i db/ddl.sql
  wpdauth=# \i db/sys_config.sql
  wpdauth=# \q
```

- Install dependencies

```console
  $ mvn install
```

- Run the project

```console
  $ mvn spring-boot:run
```


# How to run this project

Navigate to `http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html` in your browser to check everything is working correctly. You can change the default port in the `application.properties` file.

- Make a GET request to `/users/me` to check you're not authenticated. You should receive a response with a `403` with an `Access Denied` message since you haven't set your valid JWT token yet.

```
$ curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/users/me
```

- Make a POST request to `/users/signin` with the default admin user we programatically created to get a valid JWT token

```
$ curl -X POST 'http://localhost:8080/users/signin?username=admin&password=admin'
```

- Add the JWT token as a Header parameter and make the initial GET request to `/users/me` again

```
$ curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/users/me -H 'Authorization: Bearer <JWT_TOKEN>'
```

- You should get a similar response to this one, meaning that you're now authenticated

```javascript
{
  "id": 1,
  "username": "admin",
  "email": "admin@email.com",
  "roles": [
    "ROLE_ADMIN"
  ]
}
```
